Welcome back.
Let's implement one last feature in our hash table over here.
I want to create something called Quis and keys allows us to iterate or loop through all the keys of
our hash table.
In this case grapes and apples and let's add a few more just for fun.
So we see what's going on.
We'll add oranges and we don't like them too much so we're only going to add two of them.
Now if we run Keyes ideally it's going to iterate and spit out grapes apples and oranges for us to see
what we need to go shopping for.
How would we go about building this.
Well because we're gonna do some sort of looping I'm going to start off by creating a constant let's
call it.
KEYES array and this is going to be an empty array.
Within here we're going to loop so for let y equals zero
and as long as I is going to be less than this dot data the length
we're going to increment by in here we're saying we want to loop through all 50 item spaces all the
shelves one by one we're gonna loop through them.
Yep that's a lot of iterations.
And if in the shelf there is some sort of data if it's not undefined completely empty and there is something
valuable for us that we want to look because remember we allocate 50 spaces on the shelf but we've only
placed three items or three data points on that so if there is something in that memory space in that
case we can just say.
KEYES array dot push this dot data and we grab the index.
So the first or the array that we're at right here and then we want to grab apples right.
Well if I do 0 here and now hit run what we have to return something let's return here.
The keys array at the end of all this.
So after all the loops we're going to simply say return.
KEYES array fi run this I get grapes apples and oranges.
That's fantastic.
But oh I I just wanted grapes apples and oranges to see what's going on here.
Let's console the log.
This start data Hi which is what we're doing here while we're pushing and if I run this we see that
we get a raise within the array because remember we have one massive array and each time we create a
new shelf space we have to have a new array that we create and we push into that.
So a little bit of a gotcha here we have to say
zero which removes the outer Ray and now another zero to grab the first index of this array.
Just like that so if we add a now there zero in there to access the first index of the array we click
Run.
Look at that.
We get grapes apples and oranges.
Well done.
We've just implemented a hash table and you may have noticed something a downside of hash tables.
We had to loop here.
Right.
We had a for loop looping through the entire memory space in order to find our keys.
That was so much easier with the race with arrays we would have had just three items and we would have
looped over three times instead.
Here we looped over 50 times.
Imagine if we had five hundred.
That's even more.
How exciting is this.
We're starting to learn how things work underneath the hood so that now we have an idea of.
Maybe if we're using this type of method objects might not be the best idea and that's one drawback
of objects or hash tables in JavaScript.
We can use something like four and loops to loop over items in an object which again is very very slow.
And as you might realize there's no guaranteed order every time.
We're just adding something to our address.
But when we grab items from the address we just go from zero to 50 even though the items are just randomly
placed in different shelves.
But I hope now you actually get to see how it works.
We're putting items randomly in a shelf but when we retrieve them they're all on order.
And that's why coding things out even though you most likely won't get this asked in an interview knowing
how things work allows you to talk about them intelligently.
And I hope this exercise has done that for you.
I'll leave this for you to play around with and perhaps add different methods like values that grabs
the values instead of the keys.
But for now let's finalize our talk of hash tables by comparing them to arrays.